“Did you eat meat on friday? That’s a sin you can’t eat meat on friday friday is a fish day”
“Anglicans have a branch in america what are they called starts with an e?” “england” *Berman looks down in disappointment*
“This one is sexier”
“Isn’t that illegal?” “Well that’s late so it’s different so and you’re giving the paper early”
“I can do it” “I don’t know if I can trust I can trust Ethan”
“Islamic influence on the European Renaissance: Glass and Ceramics” “weird segway we are leaving the americas and going back to europe yeah that’s a weird segway”
“The end” “No wait talk about the image”
“You take a needle and you like stop the bleeding” “So you’re stitching two veins together?”
“Do we have time for mine” “Oh yeah we do. I am sure. Go Ralph go you got plenty of time”
“Can I just present that day?” “Dance party”
“Do I get minus points?” “Nah whatever. Let’s take a long time to vote and make him present today anyways”
“I wasn’t complaining about this semester I was complaining about last semester” “But you’re gonna have the really big break homework” 
“Limes, apples, oranges, that” “yeah but why them”
“When are we going to take regents” “Regardless of whether you take euro or global next year”
“So we could be taking ap test
 and a regents test same class same year?” “yeah but same topic. It’s like you take a test and then next month you take an easy test on the same topic”
“What about AP art history?” “That’s unrelated that’s art”
“Is it chocolate?” “It’s wood” “Can I eat it?” “IT’S CHOCOLATE IT’S NOT CHOCOLATE IT’S WOOD”
“Isn’t northern renaissance a branch? It served as a branch but then it developed into it’s own thing?” “more religious” 
“no the other way around” “what the northern was more religious?”
“You should teach tomorrow” “Tomorrow I’m not teaching”
“Columbus” “1492 columbus sailed the ocean blue”
“What do you need to succeed?” “They said a moustache”
“1510 was cairo i think or mecca” “1510 so it starts being consumed by sufis but then by everyone”
“They like returned to classical era” “Returned returned”
“Why is New York more catholic?” “Because irish and italians”

It is it is was church yes
Like a sophomore is a wise fool
Osman was a guy and he’s given a piece of land a little piece of land
You wanna be a neurosurgeon? No? Too bad you don’t have a choice now
You william will be a standup comedian
If you are a sultan or another important person you have your collection of girlfriends
They’ve got a baby deer I don’t know why they have a baby deer
They don’t have sexual urges and they don’t have a penis
We’ll take christian boys from the balkans there are lot of christian boys we are gonna train them and we are gonna train them well but they’re going to be owned by Sultan for life

Poland lithuania and also ukraine and its not quite germany maybe parts of germany
This empire got strong and this empire got strong and this empire got strong and they just took it
If someone wants to come up here and teach the class that’s great but I don’t wanna do it
Oh we didnt we forgot to talk about that

Well, wait, finals, you’re taking regents you’re taking finals
Some departmental finals are during regents week
There was some uhhh miscommunication which keep changing the rules what if you’re gonna miss your lunch because of AP test
Make sure you eat something
Who’s gonna miss class that day? Next wednesday
Oh I mark you absent and they fix it
I think that should be the rule whether that is the rule or not
I try to fast on Ramadan so I ate a whole avocado
Should we have class? Should we learn some things?
SPOILER FOR NEXT SEMESTER British are gonna take over!
It was a small percentage of muslims ruling a very large percentage of hindus
Some of you knew that some of you didn’t
This is the ming dynasty peak and the qin dynasty peak
It’s like heroin but lighter
It’s like heroin lite
India was RICH
India was the richest country in the world at various points
We’re not it’s not it’s big it’s important
This was the dark ages in Europe
But then Eeeeurroooope taaakes overr the woooorld
This is the peak of european imperialism before WW1
Europe takes over the world
India china were rich and then got poor wouldn’t you expect them to come back at some point
Like some people are “OMG CHINA IS SO RICH IT’S CRAZY '' and I'm like no it’s not crazy what’s crazy is that China was so poor. The century of humiliation
Who? Mao? 49. He took over in 49. Mao Zedong is still on all the money but he’s dead. He died in 76 I think. 76
Oh! Should we watch some videos? About elephants?
Wait what how does this happen how do I make this bigger
Better than nothing against a bullet but there were no bullets back then
Students often assume guns revolutionized the battlefield but they didn’t
It takes centuries for guns to be accurate and quick to load.
They have another video where um once a year they have some sort of hormone that drips out their ear and they go crazy and they attack everything and so the person on top of the elephant has to kill the elephants
Now in zoos they know how to predict it and deal with it
When they’re in must it’s not exactly heat
Is elephant sitting perfectly still and you can hit them? 
That’s why so many early muskets have bayonets at the end because it takes so long to load your gun
Meanwhile someone’s coming to attack you. You can’t shoot them you have to stab them with your gun. Fun stabby guns.
Look they start here and then they conquer this and then they conquer this but temporarily
South has much less to do with india than with the indian ocean
And spices are so good for trading right
Do we really need to know all about them? I don’t know
Akbar is the most interesting emperor because he decides he makes his own religion
The idea that everybody sort of feels involved






